docs: :memo: description of core, external Python functions (#553)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/design/python-functions.qmd

    Outputs a JSON object only, use `write_package_properties()` to save
    back to the `datapackage.json` file.

`edit_package_properties(path, properties)`

:   Make edits to the `datapackage.json` properties of a specific
    package. Only edits metadata on the package itself, not on the data
    resources contained within the package. 
    The `properties` argument must follow the Frictionless Data
    specification. Use `view_package_properties_template()` to get a
    JSON object that follows the correct specification. Use
    `path_properties()` in the `path` argument to provide the
    correct location for the file. Outputs a JSON object only, use
    `write_package_properties()` to save back to the `datapackage.json`
    file.

`delete_package(path, confirm)`

:   Completely delete a specific package and all it's data resources.
    Because this action would be permanent, the `confirm` argument
    would default to false so that the function obtains explicit
    confirmation from the user and isn't used accidentally. Use `path_package()` function in the `path` to
    get the correct location. Outputs `true` if the deletion was
    successful.

> `write_package_properties(json_object, path)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`write_package_properties(properties, path)`
```
? :)

    `path` argument.

## Data resource functions

`list_resources(path)`

:   This looks in one specific package's `datapackage.json` file and
    lists a basic summary of all the data resources contained within the
    package. The list would be basic information like resource ID, name,
    and description. Use `path_package()` to provide the correct path
    location. Outputs a JSON object by default.

`view_resource(path, properties_path)`

:   Views the information on a package's specific resource that is
    contained within the `datapackage.json` file. Use the
    `path_resource()` function to provide the correct location for the
    `path` and `path_properties()` for the `properties_path` argument.
    Outputs a JSON object.

`create_resource_structure(path)`

:   This is the first function to use to set up the structure for a data
    resource. Creates a new data resource in a specific (existing)
    package by creating the file and folder setup as described in the
    [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use the `path_resource()` function
    to provide the correct path location. Creates the files and outputs

>     a path object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a list of two path objects: the resource path and the resource `<raw>` path.
```
At least according to #549

1.  Whenever `view` is used, it is always for one object (either a
    package or a resource in a package). Whenever `list` is used, it is
    always to show basic details of all objects (packages or resources
    in a package). Both `view` and `list` only ever show the information
    contained in the `datapackage.json` and never show actual data (at
    least in a format that might not be in compliance with legal and
    privacy regulations). We don't provide the ability to view data
    directly since it is out of scope for Sprout and we want to minimise
    any security and privacy risks. The IT admin and data package admin
    users can always be able to directly (outside of Sprout) view the
    data as they will have the appropriate IT and legal permissions.
2.  `edit` only ever edits the `datapackage.json` properties for the
    metadata on the package or resource themselves but never edits the
    data itself. If there is a need for updates to the data itself, the
    user can update it by uploading a new file with the updates (as long
    as the primary keys like participant ID and time of collection are

>     the same). We don't provide access for users to directly edit the

Reviewer: Those questions have been answered in some of the other PRs that we are reviewing these days

    data because we want to limit security risks as well as to maintain
    privacy and legal compliance.
3.  `add` only ever adds more data to an existing data resource and not
    to add any new metadata to the `datapackage.json`. Since Sprout

>     contains the full Frictionless Data specification, using `edit` is

Author: I moved the link up to the top.

    enough to make updates to the existing properties found in the
    `datapackage.json` file.

Nearly all the of the functions have a `path` argument. Depending on

> what the function does, the path object would be different. Use the

Author: Hmm, it might not be just us though.

`path_*()` functions to get the correct path object for the specific
function. It's designed this way to make it more flexible to where
individual packages and resources are stored and to make it a bit easier
to write tests for the functions. For a similar reason, most of the
functions output either a JSON file or path object so it can be easier
to test.

> Several of the functions have an optional argument called `properties`,
> which is a list of key-value pairs (as a JSON object) that describe the
> package that can be used for the `datapackage.json` file and that
> follows the Frictionless Data specification.

Author: ```suggestion
Several of the functions have an optional argument called `properties`.
The properties argument is a list of key-value pairs (as a JSON object) that describe the
package. This description stored in the `datapackage.json` file and
follows the Frictionless Data specification.
```

@martonvago is this better?

Reviewer 2: Nice 👍 !! Just a missing "is" in "This description <is> stored in the..."

## Data package functions

`list_packages(path)`

:   This function lists some basic details contained in the
    `datapackage.json` files of all data packages found in the `path`

>     location. This would be a list, showing very basic information that

Author: Access isn't relevant in the core functions. Access is something we deal with in the web app. Anyone that can install Sprout can access anything they put into it.

    would be allowed by privacy and legal regulations (e.g. like the
    package ID as well as the name, description, and contact persons for

>     each package). Use `path_sprout_root()` to provide the path to the

Author: Hmm, probably? I think there are properties that allow that.

    place packages are stored by default. Outputs a JSON object by
    default.

`view_package_properties(path)`

:   This will show the information contained within the
    `datapackage.json` file of a package for only the fields relevant to

>     the package itself, not the resources within the package. Use

Author: We can create a `view_properties()` function then.

    `path_package_properties()` to provide the correct path location.
    Outputs a JSON object.

> `create_package_structure(path)`

Author: That's a level of organizing that isn't needed at this stage. Many of these documentation will be moved to the function docstrings they describe, so that the documentation can be generated automatically.

> `create_package_structure(path)`

Reviewer: Ah, nice!

:   This is the first function to use to create a new data package. It
    assigns a package ID and then creates all the necessary files for a
    package (excluding the resources), as described in the
    [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Creates the files and then outputs
    the file paths for the created files. Use `path_package()` to
    provide the correct path location to create this structure.

> `create_package_properties(path, properties)`

Author: Yea, it's to keep the input/output consistent and predictable and easier to test. In the CLI and web app, there is only one function, but for the core functions we want to keep things simpler and smaller.

> `create_package_properties(path, properties)`

Reviewer: Ahhhh, I see. 👍

:   This is the second function to use to create a new data package. It
    is used to fill in the details in the `datapackage.json` file by

>     using the `properties` argument which must be a JSON object. If the

Reviewer 2: I'll have a think about this. By "download..process...convert" do you mean writing a dataclass that is conform to the standard?

But yeah, if the entire flow is just 1) get properties from user as JSON 2) use frictionless validator function to check that properties are well-formed 3) feed properties to frictionless constructor function (2 and 3 are actually probably the other way around in frictionless, but same result), then I concede that there is no point introducing complexity before we need it 😁

    JSON object that follows the correct specification. Use
    `path_package_properties()` to provide the correct path location.
    Outputs a JSON object only, use `write_package_properties()` to save
    back to the `datapackage.json` file.

`edit_package_properties(path, properties)`

:   Make edits to the `datapackage.json` properties of a specific
    package. Only edits metadata on the package itself, not on the data
    resources contained within the package. If the `properties` argument
    isn't given, the user will be prompted to edit the required fields.
    The `properties` argument must follow the Frictionless Data
    specification, use `view_package_properties_template()` to get a
    JSON object that follows the correct specification. Use
    `path_package_properties()` in the `path` argument to provide the
    correct location for the file. Outputs a JSON object only, use
    `write_package_properties()` to save back to the `datapackage.json`
    file.

`delete_package(path, ask)`

:   Completely delete a specific package and all it's data resources.
    Because this action would be permanent, the optional argument `ask`

>     would default to true so that the function obtains explicit

Reviewer 2: When would `ask` (here or elsewhere) be false? I'm just thinking that if we want confirmation from the user when e.g. submitting a web form then usually that check is done more on the front-end side, instead of letting it trickle down to the core / backend logic.

Reviewer 2: This is somewhat similar to the question above about checking for a `properties` object in the input.

Reviewer 2: My feeling would be to not have a `confirm` argument at this level at all, and instead let higher-level functions (in `app` or `cli`) handle the confirmation. But I also don't think it's super necessary to decide now and we can see what works when we implement it :)

    The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file,
    use the `path_properties()` function to provide this path to
    the correct location. Returns the same path object as given in the
    `path` argument.

## Data resource functions

`list_resources(path)`

:   This looks in one specific package's `datapackage.json` file and
    lists a basic summary of all the data resources contained within the
    package. The list would be basic information like resource ID, name,
    and description. Use `path_package()` to provide the correct path
    location. Outputs a JSON object by default.

`view_resource(path, properties_path)`

:   Views the information on a package's specific resource that is
    contained within the `datapackage.json` file. Use the
    `path_resource()` function to provide the correct location for the
    `path` and `path_properties()` for the `properties_path` argument.
    Outputs a JSON object.

`create_resource_structure(path)`

:   This is the first function to use to set up the structure for a data
    resource. Creates a new data resource in a specific (existing)
    package by creating the file and folder setup as described in the

>     [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use the `path_resource()` function

Reviewer 2: `path_resource` is defined below as `path_resource(package_id, resource_id)`, so it needs a `resource_id` as input. But here we have yet to determine what the new/next `id` will be (cf. https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/pull/549). Do we not want a path to the resource**s** folder?

>     [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use the `path_resource()` function

Author: ```suggestion
    [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use the `path_resources()` function
```

:   This is the first function to use to setup the structure for a data
    resource. Creates a new data resource in a specific (existing)
    package by creating the file and folder setup as described in the
    [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use the `path_resource()` function
    to provide the correct path location. Creates the files and outputs
    a path object.

> `create_resource_properties(path, data_path, properties)`

Author: Yup!

:   This function either takes the data found in the `data_path`
    location to create a JSON object following the Frictionless Data
    properties or takes the `properties` argument to fill in the correct
    fields for the data resource in the `datapackage.json` file.

    If the `data_path` argument is given, it tries to guess and fill in
    some of the property fields required by the Frictionless Data
    resource specification. The user will be prompted to edit or add any
    fields that the function can't guess (like variable description).

>     If the `data_path` argument is not given, the `properties` argument

Author: 1. Yup! At least for creating the properties file anyway.
2. For core functions, there are no prompts because prompts assume interactivity and Python functions are rarely used interactively. There was some resolved discussions in the PR about using prompts.

    Use `path_resource()` to provide the correct `path` location or use the output
    of `create_resource_structure()`. Outputs
    a JSON object only, use `write_resource_properties()` to save back
    to the `datapackage.json` file.

> `copy_resource_data_to_raw(path, data_path)`

Author: ```suggestion
`write_resource_data_to_raw(path, data_path)`
```

>     Use `path_package()` to provide the correct `path` location. Outputs

Author: ```suggestion
    Use `path_resource()` to provide the correct `path` location. Outputs
```

Typo :)

    to the `datapackage.json` file.

> `copy_resource_data_to_raw(path, data_path)`

Author: Great suggestion!

:   Copy the file from `data_path` over into the resource location given
    by `path`. This will compress the file and use a timestamped, unique
    file name to store as a backup. See the explanation of this file in
    the [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. All data in this folder are
    joined together and merged over into the `data.parquet` file using
    the `construct_resource_data()` function. Use `path_resource_raw()`
    to provide the correct `path` location. Copies the file and outputs
    the path object of the created file.

> `construct_resource_data(path, raw_path)`

Author: I went back and forth on this. The problem with create is it implies making something new. But whenever new data is added to existing data, this function needs to be used to re-create/construct the Parquet data file. I couldn't think of a better action name. But I like the use of adding the parquet to the end to be clearer! Though, a disadvantage would be that if we use something other than parquet, we'd have to rename the function...

> `construct_resource_data(path, raw_path)`

Reviewer: I see what you mean, but you could also think of it as making something new: the parquet file? An alternative could be `write_resource_parquet()`? 
In terms of using parquet in the naming: I don't think we have talked about using something else, so maybe its fine - and clearer - for now?

> `construct_resource_data(path, raw_path)`

Reviewer: What a minute. Now there's a function on L239 named "write_resource_to_parquet()", has it been there all along? :P

> `construct_resource_data(path, raw_path)`

Author: Nice catch! That function was an old function before I realized that it wouldn't really work as I had originally been thinking. I'll remove it. Yea, I might have to think about this one a bit more, but for now I like the write function you suggested.

:   This function takes the files provided by `raw_path` and merges them
    into a `data.parquet` file provided by `path`. Use
    `path_resource_data()` to provide the correct path location for
    `path` and `path_resources_raw_files()` for the `raw_path` argument.

>     Outputs the path object of the created file.

Author: Overwritten/created again ☺️

:   Edit the properties of a resource in a package. The `properties`
    argument must be a JSON object that follows the Frictionless Data
    specification. Use the
    `path_properties()` function to provide the correct path
    location. Outputs a JSON object only, use
    `write_resource_properties()` to save back to the `datapackage.json`
    file.

> `delete_resource_raw_file(path, confirm)`

Reviewer: So this function only deletes the raw file and, therefore, leaves a discrepancy between what's in the raw folder and what's in the parquet file and in database?

Author: That assumes they have been merged into those other files. I added this function specifically for those times when we are building the app/CLI and ask for user input, and they close the page or something happens and we have this left over file.

    `write_resource_properties()` to save back to the `datapackage.json`
    file.

`delete_resource_raw_file(path, ask)`

:   Use this to delete a raw file in the `raw/` folder of a resource.
    This is useful if the file is no longer needed or if it is incorrect

>     or had an issue during the time when a user first is adding the file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    or had an issue during the time when a user first added the file
```

    Outputs `true` if the deletion
    was successful.

`delete_resource_data(path, confirm)`

> :   Delete all data and raw data of a specific resource. Use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Delete all data (parquet and in the database) and raw data of a specific resource. Use
```

>     to a resource. Use `path_resource_raw_files()` to select from the
>     list of files found to delete from. Will only delete one file. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    to a resource. Use `path_resource_raw_files()` to select which file
    to delete from the list of files found. Will only delete one file. The
```

    `path_resource_raw()` to provide the correct path location. The
    `confirm` argument defaults to false so that the function
    obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to prevent accidental deletion.
    Outputs `true` if the deletion
    was successful. Use `delete_resource_properties()` to delete the the

>     associated metadata for the resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    associated properties/metadata for the resource.
```

`delete_resource_properties(path, confirm)`

:   Deletes all properties for a resource within the `datapackage.json`
    file. Use `path_properties()` to provide the correct
    location for `path`. The `confirm` argument defaults to false so
    that the function obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to
    prevent accidental deletion. Outputs
    `true` if the deletion was successful.

> `write_resource_properties(json_object, path)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`write_resource_properties(properties, path)`
```
Right?

:   Use to write the resource JSON object back to the `datapackage.json` file.

>     The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file,
>     use the `path_properties()` function to provide this path to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file.
    Use the `path_properties()` function to provide this path to
```

    the correct location. Returns the same path object as given in the
    `path` argument.
 
`write_resource_to_parquet(data, path)`

:   Writes a data object to the `path` location. Use
    `path_resource_data()` to provide the correct path location. Outputs
    the path object of the created file.

> `write_resource_to_table(data, path, properties)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`write_resource_to_database(data, path, properties)`
```
A bit more specific, maybe? :) A table could also be thought of as a csv, for instance

    ensures the correct table is created in the database. Outputs the
    same `path` object as well as the name of the newly created database
    table.

> ## Path functions

Author: Yup! I think once you review #557 it would answer your questions.

    same `path` object as well as the name of the newly created database
    table.

## Path functions

::: callout-warning
These functions are still being developed.
:::

> `path_resource(package_id, resource_id)`
> 
> :   TODO

Author: ```suggestion
`path_resources(package_id)`

:   TODO

`path_resource(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO
```

`path_resource_raw(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO

`path_resource_raw_files(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO

`path_resource_data(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO

`path_properties(package_id)`

:   TODO

`path_package_database(package_id)`

:   TODO

`path_package(package_id)`

:   TODO

`path_sprout_root(package_id)`

:   TODO

## Helper functions

::: callout-warning
These functions are still being developed.
:::

`pretty_json(json)`

:   Create a prettier, human readable version of a JSON object.

> `create_properties_template()`

Reviewer: Does this include properties on the package level or resource level? Or both?

Author: The full Data Package spec would be created with this.

Reviewer: Soooo, both?

Author: Hmm, good point. Ok, added two specific functions for the package and resource.

:   TODO

`view_package_properties_template()`

:   TODO. Outputs a JSON object.

`view_resource_properties_template()`

> :   TODO. Outputs a JSON object.

Author: ```suggestion
:   TODO. Outputs a JSON object.

## Observational unit level functions

Observational unit is the level of detail on the entity (e.g. human, animal, event) that the data was collected on. Example would be: A person in a research study who came to the clinic in May 2024 to have their blood collected and to fill out a survey.

`delete_participant_data()`

: TODO.
```

    specification. To get a JSON object that follows the correct
    specification use `view_package_properties_template()`. Use
    `path_properties()` to provide the correct path location.
    Outputs a JSON object only, use `write_package_properties()` to save
    back to the `datapackage.json` file.

`edit_package_properties(path, properties)`

:   Make edits to the `datapackage.json` properties of a specific
    package. Only edits metadata on the package itself, not on the data
    resources contained within the package. 
    The `properties` argument must follow the Frictionless Data
    specification. Use `view_package_properties_template()` to get a
    JSON object that follows the correct specification. Use
    `path_properties()` in the `path` argument to provide the
    correct location for the file. Outputs a JSON object only, use
    `write_package_properties()` to save back to the `datapackage.json`
    file.

`delete_package(path, confirm)`

:   Completely delete a specific package and all it's data resources.
    Because this action would be permanent, the `confirm` argument
    would default to false so that the function obtains explicit

>     confirmation from the user and isn't used accidentally. Use `path_package()` function in the `path` to

Author: ```suggestion
    Use `path_package()` function in the `path` to
```

    get the correct location. Outputs `true` if the deletion was
    successful.

`write_package_properties(properties, path)`

:   Writes the JSON object back to the `datapackage.json` file.
    The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file,
    use the `path_properties()` function to provide this path to
    the correct location. Returns the same path object as given in the
    `path` argument.

## Data resource functions

`list_resources(path)`

:   This looks in one specific package's `datapackage.json` file and
    lists a basic summary of all the data resources contained within the
    package. The list would be basic information like resource ID, name,
    and description. Use `path_package()` to provide the correct path
    location. Outputs a JSON object by default.

`view_resource(path, properties_path)`

:   Views the information on a package's specific resource that is
    contained within the `datapackage.json` file. Use the
    `path_resource()` function to provide the correct location for the
    `path` and `path_properties()` for the `properties_path` argument.

>     Outputs a JSON object.

Author: I want to avoid deducing anything as much as possible. If we decide to rename things, we've hard coded specific paths into the code that we would have to change. Which also increases the coupling between functions.

:   This function takes the files provided by `raw_files` and merges them
    into a `data.parquet` file provided by `path`. Use
    `path_resource_data()` to provide the correct path location for
    `path` and `path_resources_raw_files()` for the `raw_files` argument.
    Outputs the path object of the created file.

`edit_resource_properties(path, properties)`

:   Edit the properties of a resource in a package. The `properties`
    argument must be a JSON object that follows the Frictionless Data
    specification. Use the
    `path_properties()` function to provide the correct path
    location. Outputs a JSON object only; use
    `write_resource_properties()` to save the JSON object to the `datapackage.json`
    file.

`delete_resource_raw_file(path, confirm)`

:   Use this to delete a raw file in the `raw/` folder of a resource.
    This is useful if the file is no longer needed or if it is incorrect
    or had an issue during the time when a user first added the file
    to a resource. Use `path_resource_raw_files()` to select which file
    to delete from the list of files found. Will only delete one file. The
    `confirm` argument defaults to false so that the function

>     obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to prevent accidental deletion.

Author: ```suggestion
    This is done to prevent accidental deletion.
```

    Outputs `true` if the deletion
    was successful.

`delete_resource_data(path, confirm)`

:   Delete all data (Parquet and in the database) and raw data of a specific resource. Use
    `path_resource_raw()` to provide the correct path location. The
    `confirm` argument defaults to false so that the function
    obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to prevent accidental deletion.
    Outputs `true` if the deletion
    was successful. Use `delete_resource_properties()` to delete the the
    associated properties/metadata for the resource.

`delete_resource_properties(path, confirm)`

:   Deletes all properties for a resource within the `datapackage.json`
    file. Use `path_properties()` to provide the correct

>     location for `path`. The `confirm` argument defaults to false so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    location for `path`. The `confirm` argument defaults to `false` so
```

>     that the function obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to

Reviewer: Again: False != explicit confirmation, orr?

>     that the function obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to
>     prevent accidental deletion. Outputs

Author: ```suggestion
    Outputs
```

    `true` if the deletion was successful.

`write_resource_properties(properties, path)`

> :   Use to write the resource JSON object back to the `datapackage.json` file.
>     The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Use to write the resource JSON object back to the `datapackage.json` file.
    This function validates whether the JSON object follows the Data Package resource specification.
    The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file.
```
Or? :)

    Use the `path_properties()` function to provide this path to
    the correct location. Returns the same path object as given in the
    `path` argument.
 

`write_resource_to_database(data, path, properties)`

:   Writes a data object to the `path` database location. Use
    `path_resource_database()` to provide the correct location for the
    `path` object. The `properties` argument, using `view_resource()`,

>     ensures the correct table is created in the database. Outputs the

Author: Exactly ☺️ Though, after the discussions, we might not use the database.

    get the correct location. Outputs `true` if the deletion was
    successful.

`write_package_properties(properties, path)`

:   Writes the JSON object back to the `datapackage.json` file.
    The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file,
    use the `path_properties()` function to provide this path to
    the correct location. Returns the same path object as given in the
    `path` argument.

## Data resource functions

`list_resources(path)`

:   This looks in one specific package's `datapackage.json` file and
    lists a basic summary of all the data resources contained within the
    package. The list would be basic information like resource ID, name,
    and description. Use `path_package()` to provide the correct path
    location. Outputs a JSON object by default.

`view_resource(path, properties_path)`

:   Views the information on a package's specific resource that is
    contained within the `datapackage.json` file. Use the
    `path_resource()` function to provide the correct location for the
    `path` and `path_properties()` for the `properties_path` argument.
    Outputs a JSON object.

> `create_resource_structure(path)`
> 
> :   This is the first function to use to set up the structure for a data
>     resource. Creates a new data resource in a specific (existing)
>     package by creating the file and folder setup as described in the
>     [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use the `path_resources()` function
>     to provide the correct path location. Creates the files and outputs
>     a list of two path objects: the `resources/<id>/` path and the `resources/<id>/raw/` path.

Reviewer: Based on [this question](https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout/pull/549/files#r1717127632) - and just the PR #549 in general, I believe we should remove anything with file creation here, since this function only creates the folder structure:

```suggestion
`create_resource_structure(path)`

:   This is the first function to use to set up the structure for a data
    resource. It creates the paths for a new data resource in a specific (existing)
    package by creating folder setup as described in the
    [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use the `path_resources()` function
    to provide the correct path location. It creates two paths:  the `resources/<id>/` 
    path and the `resources/<id>/raw/` path. The output is a list of these two path
    objects.
```

    some of the property fields required by the Frictionless Data
    resource specification. Use `edit_resource_properties()` to fill in
    any missing fields.

    If the `data_path` argument is not given, the `properties` argument
    is required and is used to directly provide the properties values
    for the resource in the `datapackage.json` file. It must be given a
    a JSON object (use `view_resource_properties_template()` to have the
    correct JSON object).

    Use `path_resource()` to provide the correct `path` location or use the output
    of `create_resource_structure()`. Outputs
    a JSON object only; use `write_resource_properties()` to save the JSON object
    to the `datapackage.json` file.

`write_resource_data_to_raw(path, data_path)`

:   Copy the file from `data_path` over into the resource location given
    by `path`. This will compress the file and use a timestamped, unique
    file name to store it as a backup. See the explanation of this file in
    the [Outputs](outputs.qmd) section. Use `path_resource_raw()`
    to provide the correct `path` location. Copies and compresses the file, and outputs
    the path object of the created file.

> `construct_resource_data(path, raw_path)`
> 
> :   This function takes the files provided by `raw_path` and merges them
>     into a `data.parquet` file provided by `path`. Use
>     `path_resource_data()` to provide the correct path location for
>     `path` and `path_resources_raw_files()` for the `raw_path` argument.
>     Outputs the path object of the created file.

Author: ```suggestion
`write_resource_parquet(raw_files, path)`

:   This function takes the files provided by `raw_files` and merges them
    into a `data.parquet` file provided by `path`. Use
    `path_resource_data()` to provide the correct path location for
    `path` and `path_resources_raw_files()` for the `raw_files` argument.
    Outputs the path object of the created file.
```

    `path_resource_raw()` to provide the correct path location. The
    `confirm` argument defaults to false so that the function
    obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to prevent accidental deletion.
    Outputs `true` if the deletion
    was successful. Use `delete_resource_properties()` to delete the the
    associated properties/metadata for the resource.

`delete_resource_properties(path, confirm)`

:   Deletes all properties for a resource within the `datapackage.json`
    file. Use `path_properties()` to provide the correct
    location for `path`. The `confirm` argument defaults to false so
    that the function obtains explicit confirmation from the user and to
    prevent accidental deletion. Outputs
    `true` if the deletion was successful.

`write_resource_properties(properties, path)`

:   Use to write the resource JSON object back to the `datapackage.json` file.
    The `path` argument is the location of the `datapackage.json` file.
    Use the `path_properties()` function to provide this path to
    the correct location. Returns the same path object as given in the
    `path` argument.
 

> `write_resource_to_parquet(data, path)`
> 
> :   Writes a data object to the `path` location. Use
>     `path_resource_data()` to provide the correct path location. Outputs
>     the path object of the created file.

Author: ```suggestion
```

:   TODO

`path_resource(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO

`path_resource_raw(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO

`path_resource_raw_files(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO

`path_resource_data(package_id, resource_id)`

:   TODO

`path_properties(package_id)`

:   TODO

`path_package_database(package_id)`

:   TODO

`path_package(package_id)`

:   TODO

`path_sprout_root(package_id)`

:   TODO

## Helper functions

::: callout-warning
These functions are still being developed.
:::

`pretty_json(json)`

:   Create a prettier, human readable version of a JSON object.

`create_package_properties_template()`

:   TODO

`create_resource_properties_template()`

:   TODO

`view_properties()`

:   TODO. Outputs a JSON object.

`view_package_properties_template()`

:   TODO. Outputs a JSON object.

`view_resource_properties_template()`

:   TODO. Outputs a JSON object.

## Observational unit level functions

Observational unit is the level of detail on the entity (e.g. human, animal, event) that the data was collected on. Example would be: A person in a research study who came to the clinic in May 2024 to have their blood collected and to fill out a survey.

> `delete_participant_data()`

Reviewer: Could this be `delete_data_based_on_id()` instead? This is a bit more general and would then also cover e.g., non-human studies?

Author: Yea, I need to think about this more, so this is a WIP section.

`create_resource_structure(path)`

:   This is the first function to use to set up the structure for a data
    resource. It creates the paths for a new data resource in a specific (existing)

>     package by creating folder setup as described in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    package by creating the folder setup described in the
```
